ICI BIM MANAGER CAREER OPPORTUNITY DESCRIPTION:

CONFIDENTIALLY SEARCHING FOR: A BIM Manager with ICI project experience ranging from $10
million to $30 million in budget.

COMPENSATION RANGE: Very Competitive

LOCATION: Toronto, ON.

ABOUT THE GENERAL CONTRACTOR:

      An ICI Construction Management-focused General Contractor with strong legacy roots by way of
       the respected senior nucleus this firm has attracted. These said respected senior construction
       professionals created a rich confidence and strong bonds with both their internal staff and
       various project clients. Recently securing a large backlog of negotiated ICI projects (ranging from
       $5 million dollars to $100+ million dollars in value) this established General Contractor seeks to
       integrate a Health and Safety manager to their senior staff.
      This Construction Management General Contractor is a relationship based firm from the top
       down; Whether its partnering with trades, architects, owners or their team members – The
       CEO’s vision is to ensure that there’s a ‘win’, ‘win’, approach, throughout all interactions
       internally and externally. Rare to see!
      Over the last 5+ years this Construction Management General Contractor has hired 60 new
       personnel!


THE PROVEN BIM MANAGER THIS ICI GENERAL CONTRACTOR IS LOOKING FOR:

      Develop and maintain the BIM Execution Plan requirements
      Validate submitted consultant and trade 3D models and documents
      Work with our project systems staff using clash avoidance/detection techniques
      Create virtual models from 2D plans, specifications and elevations
      Concrete lift drawings, blocking documents and construction plans from original drawings
      Work with point cloud data for installation validation
      Develop and monitor BIM data for FM turnover
      Train staff and promote the benefits of BIM and application use to project teams
      Minimum of 5 years’ experience in the construction/architectural industry with 3 years’ experience
       utilizing BIM software tools and workflows
      The ability to translate 2D drawings and specifications into a complete 3D/4D/5D/6D BIM
      Produce and maintain 4D schedules

CAREER PROGRESSION:

      This General Contractor continues within their growth trajectory and this role is earmarked to
       be a key position within their organizational leadership and the implementation of key 4D
       Scheduling policies would only be the beginning!


ANYONE WHO EXPRESSES INTEREST IN APPLYING OR LEARNING MORE:

Please send your resume and project list in confidence to Melika Namvar or call anytime at 416-907-7360
ext. 9638 in confidence to learn more about this career opportunity.
OUR COMMITMENTS TO OUR CANDIDATES:
     As a construction or engineering professional, your career is valued at Parker Huggett. Without
      quality professionals like you, we cannot service our clients!
     You can take comfort in knowing that we take pride in our industry knowledge when speaking
      with you about relevant opportunities that you might not be aware of as over 80% of senior
      positions are not advertised.
     Your discussions and resume will be treated with 100% confidentiality. Your resume will not be
      submitted to any client without your knowledge and consent.
     We offer referral rewards to our industry contacts and candidates who refer us to qualified
      candidates who our clients hire through our introduction. This is a “win/win" for everyone as we
      value everyone’s time and efforts. Good people, know good people.
     You will be honestly informed if you’re underqualified or overqualified and we not get in the way of
      your search by sending you to companies that are not relevant to your experience based on their
      current needs.
     You will be represented to quality General Contracting or Consulting Engineering firms with good
      reputations and proven success providing long-term / progressive career opportunities without the
      whole industry knowing about it.
