
















Application for CanBIM CP Certification
(Certified Professional)




Applicant Name:_Denis Erlich



Is this an initial Application or a Re-Submission?:	 Initial	Re-Submission


Date of Initial Application:

6/25/18



Date of Re-submission (if applicable): _7/12/19
Are >ou ?@ AertifieB?	 Ces	 No





November 2018



CP_Application for Certification_MAR2019.docx2018






Table of Contents

SECTION 1.0APPLICATION & SUBMISSION GUIDELINESPage 3SECTION 2.0PERSONAL INFORMATIONPage 4SECTION 3.0CURRENT OR PREVIOUS PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS/ASSOCIATIONSPage 5SECTION 4.0FORMAL ACADEMIC EDUCATIONPage 6SECTION 5.0OTHER RELATED EDUCATIONPage 7SECTION 6.0PRESENT EMPLOYMENT & JOB DESCRIPTIONPage 8SECTION 7.0VERIFICATION OF PRESENT EMPLOYMENT & JOB DESCRIPTIONPage 9SECTION 8.0PREVIOUS EMPLOYMENT & JOB DESCRIPTIONPage 10 - 12SECTION 9.0PROFESSIONAL REFERENCESPage 13SECTION 10.0TERMS & CONDITIONSPage 14SECTION 11.0DECLARATION BY APPLICANTPage 14SECTION 12.0APPLICATION FEESPage 14SECTION 13.0CERTIFICATION FEESPage 14SECTION 14.0INFORMATION REGARDING APPENDICES FOR CANBIM P3 CERTIFICATIONPage 16SECTION 15.0CERTIFICATION ELIGIBILITY AND REQUIREMENTS FOR P3Page 17SECTION 16.0SELECTION OF P3 CERTIFICATION PATHWAY TYPEPage 18-19Appendix A/P3 - Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Software	Page 20 -28
{To be completed for CanBIM P3 Certification only)

Appendix B/P3 - Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Management	Page 29 - 38
{To be completed for CanBIM P3 Certification only)

Appendix A/CP - Experience Summary for Multiple Project Completion	Page 39 -50
{To be completed for CanBIM CP Certification only)



1.0 APPLICATION & SUBMISSION GUIDELINES

1.  Required Prerequisite: CanBIM P3 Certification: Requirements for Professional Level 3 must be either previously satisfied or satisfied within this application.

NOTE: If applicant is applying for CP Certification without the pre-requisite of P3 Certification being previously satisfied, the requirements of P3 Certification must be satisfied with this application prior to being considered for CP Certification. Applicant must provide all the information required within the body of this application.2. Documents required for CanBIM CP:
a) Completed Application Form, with all relevant information, signed by applicant and dated as required

b) Appendix A/CP- Experience Summary for Certified Professional {CP) - describing your primary role and responsibilities in the implementation and facilitation of multiple projects utilizing a fully integrated multi- discipline Building Information Modelling process. Assessment targets to be considered are:

c) A current, up-to-date, Curriculum Vitae or Resume'.3. Submission of Application & Documents:
a) Combine all documents into A SINGLE PDF FILE in the following order:
i. Completed and signed Application for Certification with Appendix/Appendices
ii. Any additional material to support the Appendices {if applicable)
iii. Copy/copies of Academic Degree and/or Diploma {if applicable)
iv. Curriculum Vitae/Resume
v. Transcript/certificate or letter of confirmation {if applicable)
b) Submit your completed application form and all supporting documentation AS A SINGLE PDF FILE via email to certification@canbim.com
c) All supporting documentation must be numbered in proper sequential order and appended/added at the end of the application form. DO NOT remove any pages from the body of the application and DO NOT insert pages within the body of the application.
d) Document Naming Format - SINGLE PDF FILE: Applicant's Surname_Applicant's First Name_Certification Level_DateOfSubmission (e.g. Doe_Jane_P3_DD-MM-YYYY). Incorrectly named files will be returned to applicant for correction. Application processing delays may occur.4. General Guidelines
a) Processing of this application may take up to 12 weeks from the date of receipt
b) Do not remove any pages from the body of the application {See Section 3 above)
c) Do not insert any pages within the body of the application {See Section 3 above)
d) All sections of this application must be filled in - insert "Not Applicable" or "N/A" for sections which do not apply.
e) An invoice for the application fee will be sent to applicant after the submission deadline, applicant will have the option to pay online or by cheque. Payment of a non-refundable application fee is required to secure application. Application will not be processed without payment of the required application fee.
f) Failure to submit application as per the submission instructions will result in application being deferred, until such time that a revised application is received.

2.0 PERSONAL INFORMATION
Name

Prefix: Select Prefix	MRAre you a member of CanBIM:  Yes      No First Name: DenisMiddle Name: ErlichSurname:Maiden Name:Date of Birth {yyyy/mm/dd):Home Address

Number & Street: 62 Apple Blossom DriveApartment/Suite #City/Town:
ThornhillProvince:
ONTARIOPostal Code:
L4J0C4
Applicant's Contact Information

ResidenceWorkTelephone #: 6474617567Telephone #: 905-747-7906Email: erlich.denis@gmail.comEmail: denis.erlich@aecom.comMobile #: 6474617567Mobile #: N/A
I prefer to be contacted and receive correspondence at:	Home        Work 
Current Employment	I am currently not employed

Company/Employer: AECOMAddress - Number & Street: 105 Commerce Valley Drive WestSuite #: 800City/Town: MarkhamProvince: ONPostal Code: L3T7W3Telephone #: 905-747-7906Website: www.aecom.comCompany/Employer's Building-related Discipline: {e.g. architectural, engineering, construction, design-build, etc.)
Architectural, Engineering, Design-BuildIs the Company/Employer a CanBIM Member?	Yes	    No 

3.0 CURRENT OR PREVIOUS AFFILIATIONS OR PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS:

Are you now or have you ever been a member of any professional associations or are you now or have you ever received a designated certification?
Yes	No

If yes, please indicate:


Affiliation/Association 1Name of Association:
Project Management InstituteProvince:Country:
USA# of Year{s):
5Member/License #: {if applicable)
1730719Designation/Classification:
PMP

Affiliation/Association 2Name of Association:
The Register of Engineers and Architects, General Civil SectionProvince:
Tel-AvivCountry
Israel# of Year{s):
16Member/License # {if applicable)
00116107Designation/Classification:
Civil Engineer

Affiliation/Association 3Name of AssociationProvinceCountry:# Year{s):Member/License #: {if applicable)Designation/Classification:

4.0 FORMAL ACADEMIC EDUCATION

Please provide all information as requested. Verification of all formal education information must accompany the Application for Certification. Please include non-returnable photocopies of all degrees, or diplomas. Please include copies of any additional documents that may assist with the review of your application.
Discipline of study:

Architecture	 Architectural Technology	Construction Management	Engineering Technology Engineering	Construction Engineering	 Construction Eng. Technology	 Facilities Management

Other	

Formal Academic Education 1College/University Attended: Technion Institute of TechnologyDegree/Diploma Granted: Bachelor of ScienceYear Granted: 2000LocationCity: HaifaProvince:Country: Israel
Years of Study:FromToMonthYearMonthYear091996022000
Formal Academic Education 2College/University Attended:Degree/Diploma Granted:Year Granted:LocationCity:Province:Country:
Years of Study:FromToMonthYearMonthYear
Formal Academic Education 3College/University Attended:Degree/Diploma Granted:Year Granted:LocationCity:Province:Country:
Years of Study:FromToMonthYearMonthYear

5.0 OTHER RELATED EDUCATION
Please indicate any additional courses taken in addition to any Formal Education

Other Related Education 1Institution/School/Education Provider: The Chang School, Ryerson UniversityDegree/Diploma/Certificate Granted:
CKPM 213 -Management of Projects in the AECYear Granted: 2012LocationCity: TorontoProvince: ONCountry: Canada
Years of Study:FromToMonthYearMonthYear92012122012
Other Related Education 2Institution/School/Education Provider:Degree/Diploma/Certificate Granted:Year Granted:LocationCity:Province:Country:
Years of Study:FromToMonthYearMonthYear
Other Related Education 3Institution/School/Education Provider:Degree/Diploma/Certificate Granted:Year Granted:LocationCity:Province:Country:
Years of Study:FromToMonthYearMonthYear

6.0 PRESENT EMPLOYMENT & JOB DESCRIPTION

Please provide all information for your present employment position. Please attach copies of any documents that may assist with the review of your application.

Job Title:
BIM ManagerCompany Name:
AECOMDepartment:
Buildings and PlacesName of Direct Supervisor:
Nicholas BogleTitle of Direct Supervisor:
Manager, Architectural DepartmentCompany Telephone #:Company Website:
www.aecom.comEmployer's Building-related Discipline: {e.g. architectural, engineering, construction, design-build, etc.)
Architectural, EngineeringStart date of present employment:FromMonthYearOctober, 2018July, 2019Describe the primary role, function & responsibilities of your present job and, where applicable, indicate specific BIM-related functions and responsibilities.
AECOM Canada, Buildings + Places; 2018- Current BIM Manager, B+P
Responsible for setup, implementation and support of BIM programs on Government-funded design projects during various stages.
Providing and developing specifications, design coordination support and technical assistance and advice on various BIM and CADD topics.
Developing BIM and CADD Software training programs; Coordinating training sessions for the Design Teams during project delivery.



APPLICATION FOR CanBIM CP CERTIFICATION	9
7.0	VERIFICATION OF PRESENT EMPLOYMENT & JOB DESCRIPTION

Please provide the following completed statement as verification of your present job description. The statement must be completed by your direct supervisor or any other responsible person as evidence that the description of your present job functions and roles are valid. The section should only be signed once the job description portion of this application is completed in full. Insufficiently completed sections may result in a delay in the review of your application by the CanBIM Certification Assessment Panel.


I, _N_ic_h_o_la_s_B_o_g_le	 verify that the Present Employment and
Print Supervisor's Name
Job Des.cnpt'10n as descn'bed above by Denis Erlich	_·,s accurate.
Print Applicant's Name































7.0 VERIFICATION OF PRESENT EMPLOYMENT & JOB DESCRIPTION
Please provide the following completed statement as verification of your present job description. The statement must be completed by your direct supervisor or any other responsible person as evidence that the description of your present job functions and roles are valid. The section should only be signed once the job description portion of this application is completed in full. Insufficiently completed sections may result in a delay in the review of your application by the CanBIM Certification Assessment Panel.



I, _Nicholas Bogle



Print Supervisor's Name


verify that the Present Employment and

Job Description as described above by _Denis Erlich



Print Applicant's Name


is accurate.



Supervisor's Title:
Architectural ManagerCompany:
AECOM CanadaSupervisor's Signature:Date:Supervisor's Telephone #:
1-905-747-7690Supervisor's Email:
Nicholas.bogle@aecom.com

8.0 PREVIOUS EMPLOYMENT & JOB DESCRIPTION

Please provide all information for employment positions you have held prior to your present position. Please attach copies of any documents that may assist with the review of your application.

Previous Employment 1Job Title:
BIM ManagerCompany Name:
CTSDepartment:
BIMName of Direct Supervisor:
Tom StrongTitle of Direct Supervisor:
CTOCompany Telephone #:
(905) 896-8900Company Website:
www.ellisdon.comEmployer's Building-related Discipline: {e.g. architectural, engineering, construction, design-build, etc.)  Dates of Employment:FromToMonthYearMonthYear072015092018Describe the primary role, function & responsibilities of your previous job and, where applicable, indicate specific BIM-related functions and responsibilities.
Worked in position of BIM Manager on Eglinton Light Rapid Transit (LRT) Project Joint Venture, as seconded employee of Ellis Don Constructors Corporation. Managing 6 direct employees, supervising total of 17 BIM coordinators, Modelers and Drafters.
As BIM Manager, responsible to set up BIM process on the project, including BIM Charter, BIM Execution Plan, Development and implementation of BIM Use Cases, Procedures for Data Exchange, Surveying, As-Built Data collection, Trade Coordination etc. Providing and facilitating BIM software-specific training.


Previous Employment 2Job Title:
Sr. BIM CordinatorCompany Name:
EllisDon ConstructorsDepartment:
BIMName of Direct Supervisor:
Thomas StrongTitle of Direct Supervisor:
CTOCompany Telephone #:
(905) 896-8900Company Website:
www.ellisdon.comEmployer's Building-related Discipline: {e.g. architectural, engineering, construction, design-build, etc.)
Design-Build
  Dates of Employment:FromToMonthYearMonthYear032010072015Describe the primary role, function & responsibilities of your previous job and, where applicable, indicate specific BIM-related functions and responsibilities
? Responsible for the set-up of BIM field operations, including execution plans, BIM manuals, contract addenda. Led the team in setup and integration of the VDC process with trade agreements, document control, design coordination and change management.

I was hired to EllisDon in March 2010, and spent couple of months in the office environment, preparing documentation for BIM deployments. Tom Strong just organized the department at that time, and hired his first employee, Chris Little from Allumination Ltd, and former MEP foreman from Modern Niagra. I was employee number two. We developed our first BIM execution plan from combination of Indiana University, USACE corps BIM document and VA BIM Execution Plan document ( At the time Penn State BxP did not exist yet).
Our first BIM- enabled project was KDC (Krimbel Discovery Centre in Downtown Toronto under UHC), this project was IPD ( Integrated Project Delivery) contract, and Revit- enabled BIM process was first tested by Tim Quinlan, our first VDC Coordinator. Project was essentially modelled by Architectural and Structural Consultants, and Black and Mackdonald Mechanical and Electrical partners of Ellisdon were responsibe for the process of MEP coordination of their own teams.

This project was a testing ground for my new role as BIM deployment manager, and established fairly scalable pattern for next years to come on multiple projects.

 As BIM/VDC deployment manager, I functionally managed and oversaw BIM program on the large P3 Hospital projects (Krembil Discovery Centre, Sick Kids Hospital, COT, Calgary International Airport, New Oakville Hospital, Surrey Memorial Hospital - Critical Care Tower, Waterpark Place Phase 3 Tower, Providence Health Care Hospital, Burlington's St Thomas Hospital Addition), Civil Infrastructure projects (VivaNext H3, H2, H2VMC Highway 7 East Rapid way), Data Centers ( Monteral Ericsson, Barrie TD Bank) with extensive experience leading and supporting BIM teams.I deployed, Trained and was personally involved with the following projects:Below is a list of jobsites, that I was personally envolved, trained and functionally managed:

Krimbel Discovery Centre, Toronto, ON (April 2010- July 2011); Surrey Memorial Hospital, BC (Jul 2011- Nov 2011);
VIVANext H3 Rapid Transit Project (Jul 2011 - Nov 2011); Sick Kids Hospital (Jan 2011 - Nov 2011);
Saskatoon Police HQ (Aug 2011 -Apr 2012);
Calgary International Airport - YYC (May 2011- Jul 2012); Ryerson University - CLS Campus (Jul 2012- Feb 2013); Goldring Centre of Performing Arts UofT (Oct 2012 - Feb 2013); Jasper Lodge Renovation Survey ( Nov 2012-May 2013 );

My role included for writing Execution Plans, helping with BIM specification writing, budgeting, leading in-house modelling teams to support Field BIM, training of new-coming BIM coordinators to Interference management, document control, handling models, modelling techniques, understanding contract specifics, and various interoperability issues. Large portion of that role included for developing interpersonal skills and leadership and mentor skills.

During my time in Ellisdon, I re-wrote template BIM Execution manual of EllisDon, made BIM amendment to Contract's Appendix A of General Conditions in cooperation with Christian Wiechmann of Commercial Services & Project Controls at EllisDon.

At the same time, as BIM expanded it's application beyond clash detection, I was developing and operationalizing scanning services for Ellisdon's Geomatics Group, profit-and-loss group engaged in laser scanning of existing conditions for major renovation projects (Yorkdale Mall, Markham Mall Expansion, YYZ T3 Renovation etc.), that later became quite successful enterprise under Vincent Zhang.
on ICI and Civil job sites of Ellisdon. Trained, coached and supported EllisDon BIM personnel.


Previous Employment 3Job Title:
VDC Coordinator/ModellerCompany Name:
PCLDepartment:
VDCName of Direct Supervisor:
Dan NeufegliseTitle of Direct Supervisor:
BIM DirectorCompany Telephone #:
9052767600Company Website:
www.pcl.comEmployer's Building-related Discipline: {e.g. architectural, engineering, construction, design-build, etc.)
Design-Build
  Dates of Employment:FromToMonthYearMonthYear022008032010Describe the primary role, function & responsibilities of your previous job and, where applicable, indicate specific BIM-related functions and responsibilities

Project Coordinator/BIM Coordinator for Bell LightBox project. Part of Bell LightBox Construction Team, was responsible for project documentation review, document control, coordination, change management; review of construction BIM model , clash reports and BIM meetings. Later joined PCL BIM Department and was in charge of coordination of the structural shop and lift drawings for facade systems of SKH ( Saint Katherine Hospital) Project.
Modeling and coordinating of St Catherines Health Care Facility; participation in Design Coordination activities of one of the design disciplines ( Facade and exterior finishes). Site visits for Coordination activities, Coordinating with Architect and other modellers in teh company, conducting interference meetings, provided reports.

9.0 PROFESSIONAL REFERENCES
Please provide the names and contact information of at least two people, not including your present supervisor, who have a good knowledge of your capabilities and work experience and support your application. These professional references may be contacted on your behalf.


Reference 1Name:
Omar ZuberiTitle:
BIM ManagerCompany Name:
SNC LavalinEmail Address:
omar.zuberi@snclavalin.comCompany Telephone #:
+1 613-567-8517Company Website:
www.snclavalin.comCompany's Building-related Discipline: {e.g. architectural, engineering, construction, design-build, etc.)
Construction, Design-Build

Reference 2Name:
Patric LalondeTitle:
BIM ManagerCompany Name:
EllisDonEmail Address:
plalonde@ellisdon.comCompany Telephone #:
(905) 896-8900Company Website:
www.ellisdon.comCompany's Building-related Discipline: {e.g. architectural, engineering, construction, design-build, etc.)
Construction, Design-Build


10.0 TERMS AND CONDITIONS
/1 _Denis Erlich



the Applicant1 hereto:

1. Agree to pay to the Canada BIM Council a non-refundable application fee and non-refundable certification fee.
2. Understand that CanBIM may terminate my certification at any time without any refund of payment being made, in the following circumstances;
* Failure to meet the necessary requirements of the certification
* Misrepresentation or providing incorrect information to CanBIM
* Failure to settle any payments within 30 days of receiving an invoice
3. Understand that any certification document issued by Canada BIM Council remains the property of Canada BIM Council and shall be returned upon request or if my certification should cease for any reason.
4. Authorize Canada BIM Council to collect and retain the information provided within this application form and any appendices or accompanying documents on file for the duration of my certification with Canada BIM Council.
5. Hereby certify all statements made and information provided within this application form to be true, complete and correct to the best of my knowledge.

11.0 DECLARATION BY APPLICANT
Name: (please print) Denis ErlichSignature:Date:
7/12/18
12.0 APPLICATION FEES
Upon submission of the application, CanBIM will send an invoice after the submission deadline for the application fees with an option to pay online or by cheque. Payment is due upon receipt.


13.0 CERTIFICATION FEES

Certification FeesCertification Fees are not due at this time. A Certification Fee will be billed once this application has been reviewed and level of certification confirmed.Subsequent Certification Fees are as follows:CanBIM MembersNon-MembersCanBIM P1$110.00 for 2 Years$160.00 for 2 YearsCanBIM P2$210.00 for 2 Years$260.00 for 2 YearsCanBIM P3$310.00 for 2 Years$360.00 for 2 yearsCanBIM CP$410.00 for 2 Years$460.00 for 2 years


10.0 TERMS AND CONDITIONS
I1 _Denis Erlich



the Applicant1 hereto:

1. Agree to pay to the Canada BIM Council a non-refundable application fee and non-refundable certification fee.
2. Understand that CanBIM may terminate my certification at any time without any refund of payment being made, in the following circumstances;
* Failure to meet the necessary requirements of the certification
* Misrepresentation or providing incorrect information to CanBIM
* Failure to settle any payments within 30 days of receiving an invoice
3. Understand that any certification document issued by Canada BIM Council remains the property of Canada BIM Council and shall be returned upon request or if my certification should cease for any reason.
4. Authorize Canada BIM Council to collect and retain the information provided within this application form and any appendices or accompanying documents on file for the duration of my certification with Canada BIM Council.
5. Hereby certify all statements made and information provided within this application form to be true, complete and correct to the best of my knowledge.

11.0 DECLARATION BY APPLICANT
Name: {please print) Denis ErlichSignature:Date:
July 11, 2018
12.0 APPLICATION FEES
Upon submission of the application, CanBIM will send an invoice after the submission deadline for the application fees with an option to pay online or by cheque. Payment is due upon receipt.


13.0 CERTIFICATION FEES





















START OF P3 APPLICATION






Verification of P3 Certification Status I am currently P3 Certified
  Yes	 No

If Yes, proceed to, review and complete pages 40-49 ONLY If No, proceed to, review and complete pages 16-49


14.0 INFORMATION REGARDING APPENDICES FOR CANBIM P3 CERTIFICATION
P3 Certification is a competency-based assessment, which recognizes knowledge and skills acquired either exclusively through professional experience or through a combination of formal training coupled with professional experience. The submitted description of professional experience provided in Appendix A/P3 and Appendix B/P3 will be assessed according to the minimum Assessment Targets for CanBIM P3 certification.

P3 Assessment Targets:

1. Pre-requisite of CanBIM Professional Level 2 (P2) Certification
* Applicant must satisfy having met the P2 requirements; Requirements for Professional Level 2 must be either previously satisfied or satisfied within this application.

2. Advanced proficiency in the use of software and computer applications related to the BIM process
* Applicant must satisfy the requirement of advanced technical skills/application of tools, software and working methods within the BIM process.
* Sufficient evidence of having effectively and successfully logged the required hours of professional experience in the use of BIM-related software within a building-related or infrastructure-related discipline {see page 16).

3. Administration of the BIM process as related to the business1 project1 design or construction management aspects of a project within the Applicant1s designated discipline.
* Command of the management plan; and protocols within the BIM process
* Sufficient evidence of having effectively and successfully logged the required hours in a management/administrative role in building and/or infrastructure projects within a multi- discipline Building Information Modelling process.

For example, consideration may be given to the following:
* Specifying/defining BIM objectives, goals and deliverables
* Software selection, configuration and training
* Guide and assist design and/or field personnel to maximize productivity
* Understand the management of changes, contracts, methods of project delivery, data formats, data sharing, integration, collaboration and coordination and inter-operability within the BIM environment
* Develop, manage and maintain BIM procedures, protocols and processes
* Quality control of model production/consistency
* Coordinating BIM team members
* Data sharing; Collaboration & coordination; inter-operability
* Understand the following within the BIM process: Contracts & Specs, Cost Estimating, Scheduling, Project Procurement, Project Coordination, Construction Documentation

NOTE 1: Examples:
The list above consists of non-exclusive and non-exhaustive examples only and applicants should not consider it a limitation in knowledge or skills. The above-noted examples are only intended to provide general direction and guidance on the level and degree of management responsibility that should be distinguished and detailed in the enclosed Appendix B/P3 - Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Management. Applicants are encouraged to expand beyond the points listed above, if applicable, in order to further outline their professional experience in a management/administrative role.

NOTE 2: P2 Pre-requisite (REQUIRED)
Where an applicant is applying directly to CanBIM P3 without having the required CanBIM P2 prerequisite, the applicant MUST fulfill the required CanBIM P2 prerequisite in completing Appendix A/P3 and Appendix B/P3 included in this document.


15.0 CERTIFICATION ELIGIBILITY AND REQUIREMENTS FOR P3
In the Matrix shown below, select which option best reflects your status to determine professional hours required. If the applicant has completed a course{s) which has been certified as CanBIM Foundations:
Refer to Section 'A' of the chart below and select the Foundations level to which the course{s) have been certified.
Each CanBIM Foundations designation corresponds to the minimum number of professional hours required for application to the CanBIM P3 certification.

If the applicant has not completed a course{s) which has been certified as CanBIM Foundations and wishes to proceed based on professional hours of experience alone:
Refer to the chart below and Section 'B', indicating the minimum number of professional hours required for application to the CanBIM P3 certification.

Reference Matrix for Determining Certification Eligibility and RequirementsSection A:
If a CanBIM Foundations Course(s) and/or Program has/have been completed:
The following hours are required for application to the respective CanBIM Professional Certification levels. A list of CanBIM Foundations certified courses can be found on the CanBIM website.
Hours Required for
P3 Management
Hours Required for
P3 SoftwareCanBIM Foundations - TheorySelectIntroductory Theory34706000Intermediate Theory34406000Advanced Theory33506000Proficient Theory32906000CanBIM Foundations - Software SkillsIntroductory Software Skills35005825Intermediate Software Skills35005665Advanced Software Skills35005445Proficient Software Skills35005240CanBIM Foundations - Theory & Software SkillsIntroductory Theory & Software Skills34705825Intermediate Theory & Software Skills34405665Advanced Theory & Software Skills33505445Proficient Theory & Software Skills32905240CanBIM Foundations - Applied Theory & Software SkillsProficient Applied Theory & Software Skills {Academic Co-Op/Practicum)25003000Proficient Applied Theory & Software Skills {Professional)20002500Section B:Hours Required for
P3 ManagementHours Required for
P3 SoftwareIf a CanBIM Foundations Course{s) and/or Program has NOT been completed OR if a Course has been completed but is NOT CanBIM Certified
{See CanBIM website for list of CanBIM Certified Courses/Programs)


3500

6000
If the Applicant is currently CanBIM P2 Certified

2500
4000

16.0 SELECTION OF P3 CERTIFICATION PATHWAY TYPE
Select ONLY one (1) of the three (3) certification pathways below which best reflects your status. Refer to page 17 to determine professional hours required.

CanBIM P3 Certification (Professional Level 3)RequiredBox 1?Completed Application Form, signed and dated as required.RequiredBox 2?A current, up-to-date, Curriculum Vitae or Resume'.ANDComplete only ONE Option of the threeOPTION 1

Not P2- Certified

CanBIM Foundations Course
+
Experience
(Complete Box 3 to 6)Box 3
I am not CanBIM P2 CertifiedBox 4
Proof, in the form of a Transcript, Certificate, or Letter of Confirmation of the successful completion of a CanBIM Foundations Certified course{s) {see CanBIM website for criteria and levels).AND
Box 5
Appendix A/P3- Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Software describing, in detail, the required hours of
professional experience {See Page 16) of BIM related software within a building-related or infrastructure-related discipline.AND
Box 6
Appendix B/P3 - Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Management describing in detail, the required hours of professional experience {See Page 16) in the management of the BIM process as related to the business, project, design or construction management aspects of a projectOROPTION 2

Not P2- Certified

Professional Experience OnlyBox 7I am not CanBIM P2 Certified
Box 8?In the case where a CanBIM Foundations Certified course{s) has not been completed, Appendix A/P3- Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Software describing, in detail, 6000 hours of professional experience of BIM related
software within a building-related or infrastructure-related discipline.AND
Box 9
?Appendix B/P3 - Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Management describing in detail, 3500 hours of professional experience {see pages 15-18 for guidelines) in the management of the BIM process as related to the business, project, design or construction management aspects of a projectOROPTION 3

P2-Certified

Professional Experience Only

(Complete Box 10 to 12)Box 10I am CanBIM P2 Certified
Box 11
In the case where a CanBIM Foundations Certified course{s) has not been completed, Appendix A/P3- Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Software describing, in detail, 4000 hours of professional experience of BIM related software within a building-related or infrastructure-related discipline.AND
Box 12
Appendix B/P3 - Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Management describing in detail, 2500 hours of professional experience {see pages 16 for guidelines) in the management of the BIM process as related to the business, project, design or construction management aspects of a project

Note:
If the applicant has completed an introductory-level course in BIM foundations/fundamentals that is not CanBIM-certified, the applicant must select Option 2 above. The course outline and confirmation of course completion may be included by the applicant as supplementary/additional information for consideration during the Certification review and assessment. If unsure whether the completed course is CanBIM-certified please visit the CanBIM website and/or check with your learning provider.


To the Applicant: For CanBIM P3 Certification, both Appendix A/P3 and Appendix B/P3 must be completed

To claim hours of professional experience, complete the appropriate appendix/appendices and submit together with your Application for Certification. Applicants must demonstrate the appropriate professional experience in their respective building-related or infrastructure-related discipline. The purpose of this summary is to illustrate the understanding and experience acquired in the applicant's specific discipline.

To assist with the review of your professional experience and help ensure that your Appendices provide the appropriate information, it is suggested that your summary be organized as follows:
* Indicate all required information {including company name, location, employment dates and total hours)
* For each position reported, provide a summary describing the nature of work performed.
When describing your practical experience:
* Focus on what you did as it relates to the BIM process for the project.
* Be specific about what you did as opposed to the work of the team.
* Provide sufficient information about the nature and complexity of the tasks you've completed.


Appendix A/P3 and Appendix B/P3 each contain summary pages for your use - use these pages and any additional pages as required. You may include additional appendices or documentation, including project documents, where there is appropriate reference to the work and, which supplement the summary and will serve as support documentation. If additional pages are added it is REQUIRED that the applicant append the pages at the end of the document with corresponding page numbers in order to allow CanBIM Reviewers and Assessors to adequately interpret the information in its proper order. Failure to do this may result in a deferral and/or delay in the processing of the application.

Instructions:
1. Complete this Appendix by providing all required information.
2. Sign the Declaration by Applicant
3. Have your Direct Supervisor for the work, review the information, and sign the Direct Supervisor's Declaration.
4. Submit the signed Appendix with your Application for CanBIM P3 Certification.
5. It is recommended that:
a. descriptions be as specific as possible with examples and
b. direct references to the BIM process be provided where applicable and that
c. the applicant maximize the use of all pages of Appendices provided in the summary.
6. If required or applicable, the Applicant may choose to add additional project summaries immediately following Page 38 of this Application.


DECLARATION BY APPLICANT
I hereby certify all statements made and information provided within the Appendices {including any attachments hereto) to be true, complete and correct to the best of my knowledge.

Name: {please print)
Denis ErlichSignature:Date:

To the Applicant: For CanBIM P3 Certification, both Appendix A/P3 and Appendix B/P3 must be completed

To claim hours of professional experience, complete the appropriate appendix/appendices and submit together with your Application for Certification. Applicants must demonstrate the appropriate professional experience in their respective building-related or infrastructure-related discipline. The purpose of this summary is to illustrate the understanding and experience acquired in the applicant's specific discipline.

To assist with the review of your professional experience and help ensure that your Appendices provide the appropriate information, it is suggested that your summary be organized as follows:
* Indicate all required information (including company name, location, employment dates and total hours)
* For each position reported, provide a summary describing the nature of work performed.
When describing your practical experience:
* Focus on what you did as it relates to the BIM process for the project.
* Be specific about what you did as opposed to the work of the team.
* Provide sufficient information about the nature and complexity of the tasks you've completed.


Appendix A/P3 and Appendix B/P3 each contain summary pages for your use - use these pages and any additional pages as required. You may include additional appendices or documentation, including project documents, where there is appropriate reference to the work and, which supplement the summary and will serve as support documentation. If additional pages are added it is REQUIRED that the applicant append the pages at the end of the document with corresponding page numbers in order to allow CanBIM Reviewers and Assessors to adequately interpret the information in its proper order. Failure to do this may result in a deferral and/or delay in the processing of the application.

Instructions:
1. Complete this Appendix by providing all required information.
2. Sign the Declaration by Applicant
3. Have your Direct Supervisor for the work, review the information, and sign the Direct Supervisor's Declaration.
4. Submit the signed Appendix with your Application for CanBIM P3 Certification.
5. It is recommended that:
a. descriptions be as specific as possible with examples and
b. direct references to the 8IM process be provided where applicable and that
c. the applicant maximize the use of all pages of Appendices provided in the summary.
6. If required or applicable, the Applicant may choose to add additional project summaries immediately following Page 38 of this Application.


DECLARATION BY APPLICANT
I hereby certify all statements made and information provided within the Appendices (including any attachments hereto) to be true, complete and correct to the best of my knowledge.

Name: (please print)
Denis ErlichSignature:Date:
7/12/19





Appendix A/P3
Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Software

The information and details provided in this Appendix will be assessed to determine if the applicant has, through professional experience:


1. Mastered an advanced proficiency in the use of software and computer application related to the BIM process and

2. Provided a sufficient descriptive summary in the use of BIM-related software within a building and/or infrastructure-related discipline

QQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQ
This appendix contains eight {8) summary pages for your use; use these pages and any additional pages as required.

The applicant may include additional appendices or documentation, including project documents, where there is appropriate reference to the work and, which supplement the summary and will serve as support documentation.

If additional pages are added it is REQUIRED that the applicant append the pages at the end of the document with corresponding page numbers in order to allow CanBIM Reviewers and Assessors to adequately interpret the information in its proper order.
Failure to do this may result in a deferral and/or delay in the processing of the application. QQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQ




Appendix A/P3- Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Software



Project Name:
Bell Lightbox
Employer/Company Name:
PCL

Project Location:
Toronto
Software Utilized:
Navisworks, Graphisoft


 Practical Experience

Referring to the instructions indicated on page 15 & 18, provide a detailed summary about the nature and complexity of work undertaken, in the specific discipline within the BIM process, demonstrating applied working knowledge and skills in the use of SIM-related software. It is recommended that descriptions be as specific as possible with examples where applicable. Direct references to the BIM process must be provided.
 Started as Project Coordinator at PCL's Bell LightBox project, on March 2008; after some time, I became involved with BIM deliverable by Allumination Ltd, company of Chris Little, that provided coordination model from KPMB ( Interior Design) and Kirkor Architects ( Main Design}. With the time, model became a challenge to manage by the field construction team, and I was reassigned as VDC Field Coordinator for the project;
I learned to use VIGO Software from literature and available training material i found online and with assistance from PCL Head office SIM Director Dan Neufeglise. Another software that I had to learn was Navisworks 2008 version.
At that time, main process that was supported by me was coordination of the models
( Architectural and Structural podium models) and deficiency detection in comparison with structural and architectural drawings, produced by architect. Both were in development, there were no definitive workflow to tell which was deficient,
With the help of Jim Stinson and Ken Lester, Project Superintendent and Project Manager, respectively, I mastered skill of reading construction documentation, identifying deficiencies in plan annotations and comparing plans with elevations and sections, effectively learning both skills of drawing reading and modelling.
My additional task on this project was to coordinate Doors and Door accessories with Door vendor Upper Canada. Later came Curtain wall vendor ( Flynn}, and coordination of the facade erection sequence through demonstration of specific erection times of glass elements.
During construction, my task was to document concrete pours and to get through the site with the laptop, identifying model problems and fixing them to represent as-built ( as­ construct} condition.








Continue next page (if required)



Continued (if required)

Direct Supervisor's Declaration:
I declare that the	tion is an accurate summary of the applicant's ex erience.

Si nature:


Name: Dan Neufeglise	Date:	Supervisor'sEmailAddress:dneufeglise@canbim.comSupervisor's Tel. No:  4'\ -	7-'1? 3L{-




Appendix A/P3- Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Software


Project Name:
St Catherines Hospital ProjectProject Location:
Toronto, ON, St Catherines, ONEmployer/Company Name:
PCLSoftware Utilized:
Navisworks, Graphisoft
Practical
ExperienceFromTo.Total
Hours·MonthYearMonthYearApril2009March20101500Referring to the instructions indicated on page 15 & 18, provide a detailed summary about the nature and complexity of work undertaken, in the specific discipline within the BIM process, demonstrating applied working knowledge and skills in the use of SIM-related software. It is recommended that descriptions be as specific as possible with examples where applicable. Direct references to the BIM process must be provided.
in the PCL headquarters , I was part of the VDC Modelling and coordinating team, working on the St Catherines Hospital project with specific specialization on the facade, exterior walls and precast veneer panels, along with the adjacent systems ( canopies, doors); Modelling was done in VIGO Graphisoft software ( later known as Archicad), with coordination and visualisation output in Autodesk Navisworks. I was inputing in PCL design review team, that was working with the Architect to coordinate and value engineer the facade system, and was looking at design optimisation and constructability issues with the facade elements, especially at the 3-dimensional connections of prefabricated panels with different veneers and trims to glass, steel and canopy roof connections, and essentially were developing these connection details using element mockups that I was modelling. This was extensive modelling exercise and Navisworks fly-throughs.Continue next page (if required)





Continued (if required)


Direct Supervisor's Declaration:
I declare that the preceding i for	tion and description is an accurate summary of the a	licant's experience.














Appendix A/P3- Experience Summary for Professional level 3 - Software

Project #: 3Project Name:
Jasper Lodge Renovation Survey:Project Location:
Jasper, ABEmployer/Company Name:
EllisDonSoftware Utilized:
Civil3D, Faro Scene Practical ExperienceFromToTotal
HoursMonthYearMonthYearNov2012May2013600Referring to the instructions indicated on page 15 & 18, provide a detailed summary about the nature and complexity of work undertaken, in the specific discipline within the BIM process, demonstrating applied working knowledge and skills in the use of BIM-related software. It is recommended that descriptions be as specific as possible with examples where applicable. Direct references to the BIM process must be provided.
Project scope included execution of Scanning and Data acquisition of the Jasper Park Lodge area to create as-built drawings for further utilization by the project team. My role included for identifying scope, budget, schedule for the work performance, including methods to acquire, process and present date to the client. Work had been accomplished in full scope, including follow up with the client, managing scope gaps and coordinating deficiencies.
During that time, technology to identify scanned elements from the pointcloud was in it's infancy, therefore It was my role to identify, choose correct and effective workflow and to train the team to conduct pointcloud registration, geolocate, collect wast amount of data from the pointcloud model and to trace existing utilites and generate SUE map based on markings of the utilities, left by the location team, model all the topographical features including building boundaries, treelines, sidewalks etc, and to incorporate all other information from the existing surveys of the location; produce tiled map and supply it to the design team for development of the proposed utilities plan. We utilized winter break utilized for in-house processing of the information.Continue next page (if required)


Continued (if required)


Direct Supervisor's Declaration:
I declare that the preceding information and description is an accurate summary of the applicant's experience.

Signature:Name: Tom StrongJuly 31, 2019
Date:Supervisor's Email Address: tstrong@canbim.com6476753586
Supervisor's Tel. No:

Appendix A/P3- Experience Summary for Professional level 3 - Software

Project #:Project Name:
CROSSLINX TRANSIT SOLUTIONS (CTS).Project Location:
Toronto, ONEmployer/Company Name:
AECOMSoftware Utilized:
Revit, BIM 360, Navisworks Practical ExperienceFromToTotal
HoursMonthYearMonthYearJune2015October20181000Referring to the instructions indicated on page 15 & 18, provide a detailed summary about the nature and complexity of work undertaken, in the specific discipline within the BIM process, demonstrating applied working knowledge and skills in the use of BIM-related software. It is recommended that descriptions be as specific as possible with examples where applicable. Direct references to the BIM process must be provided.
During the project I was performing extensive training on established softwar packages, and also learning myself to use new software packages, as part of the CTSC BIM Execution Programme. This project utilized 4D scheduling software Synchro, and It was used by me to review, and to retrain upcoming specialists on the project, in order to maintain existing use cases on continuous basis.
We heavily used Microstation and Bentley InRoads to satisfy requirement for Metrolinx- compliant
We modelled all the Construction Support works in our group, as well as enchaced design models with additional model elements and metadata to provide for 4D scheduling and Quantity Takeoffs.
Laser Scanning was also used quirte extensively on some segments, so we did have a chance to remodel civil works and some of the retrofits ( Second Cup on Mt Pleasant, Kodak Building on EMSF), swats of areas on Segment 5 ( Don MIlls-Kennedy area).Continue next page (if required)


Continued (if required)
As part of quality control and progress assessment on the project, having about 120 models and counting Revit models, It was essential to automate review tasks, and create Quality Assessment Program for all the content. I created Dynamo library with automation scripts ( Dynamo Automation package with Master and Slave Graphs) that was producing counts of elements, checking classification, normalizing models by georeferencing them to the project; reporting on naming conventions of families, views , view sheets, checking on element counts and quality of elements in relation to GFA's of station and producing comparative reports to the upper management;

We introduced Solibri Model Checker as our flagship program for review of the model content; I created checking rules for 60% and 90% design progress; as well as worked with extensive amount of data to compare drawings with models. All this was automated sufficiently to allow our relatively small group ( 6 BIM leads and other BIM users) to control the arrival of design information and fairly assess the progress.

Later, when Trade models become available, we switched to Navisworks review workflow, as data sources became much more variative and quality of date somehow deteriorated to the point that it became less intelligent to handle in Solibri.





















Direct Supervisor's Declaration:
I declare that the preceding information and description is an accurate summary of the applicant's experience.

Signature:Name: Tom Strongjuly 31, 2019
Date:Supervisor's Email Address: tstrong@canbim.com6476753586
Supervisor's Tel. No:

Appendix A/P3- Experience Summary for Professional level 3 - Software

Project #:Project Name:
EllisDone Deployment ProgramProject Location:
Canada-wideEmployer/Company Name:
EllisDonSoftware Utilized:
Revit, Navisworks, Solibri, Synchro, C Practical ExperienceFromToTotal
HoursMonthYearMonthYearMarch2010June20152400Referring to the instructions indicated on page 15 & 18, provide a detailed summary about the nature and complexity of work undertaken, in the specific discipline within the BIM process, demonstrating applied working knowledge and skills in the use of BIM-related software. It is recommended that descriptions be as specific as possible with examples where applicable. Direct references to the BIM process must be provided.
During my time at EllisDon, I have been involved with numerous projects setup; Althoug my primary role was BIM Deployment Manager, I was constantly and extensively developing new workflows with the new and existing software to accommodate with the emerging technologies and new ways of using BIM.
I personally was scanning and processing ( Cleaning, Registering) and modelling on projects such as H2VMC (CN Bridge), H3 ( HWY 7 Stops as-built data), Massey Hall Renovation Project ( Capturing existing interiors and exteriors and modeling existing conditions), Saskatoon Remai Moderna Art Museum, YYZ T3 Luggage System fit-in, Jasper ( featured separaely), Marhham Mall, London, ON. Sears Renovation, Yorkdale Expansion, Up Express Passenger Platform, Goderich Salt Mine, Ottawa CPP and many more.

As EllisDon Deployment Program always involved intensive training at the beginning of the job, it was imperative for me to personally train an emerging specialist on Navisworks, Revit, Civil3D and FARO software, as well as personally involved in some of the projects, whre overlap or additional training was required.
Some of the initiative, such as developing workflow for Civil 3D modelling for utilities coordination and for quantity takeoffs ( H3, H2, H2VMC) required additional extensive use of software that was not BIM-copmatible at the time, and required workarounds and creative solutions.Continue next page (if required)


Continued (if required)


Direct Supervisor's Declaration:
I declare that the preceding information and description is an accurate summary of the applicant's experience.

Signature:Name: Tom Strongjuly 31, 2019
Date:Supervisor's Email Address: tstrong@canbim.com6476753586
Supervisor's Tel. No:

Appendix A/P3- Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Software

Project #:Project Name:
TTC SSEProject Location:
Scarborough, ONEmployer/Company Name:
AECOMSoftware Utilized:
AECOsim, Microstation, Navisworks Practical ExperienceFromToTotal
HoursMonthYearMonthYearOctober2018June2019700Referring to the instructions indicated on page 15 & 18, provide a detailed summary about the nature and complexity of work undertaken, in the specific discipline within the BIM process, demonstrating applied working knowledge and skills in the use of BIM-related software. It is recommended that descriptions be as specific as possible with examples where applicable. Direct references to the BIM process must be provided.
on October 23, 2018, I was hired as BIM manager for AECOM's Markham Buildings and Places office to support Design development of the TTC SSE Project - Scarborough Centre East Station, that included subway station, Drive and 2 Bus Stations (TTC and GO); project was underway for about 2 years at that point; BIM Execution Plan, Software work flows and Design development and Coordination processes well established, and design was undergoing 60% progress development.
BIM Manager role in the design environment is different from Construction side, as it primarily deals with issues of Design Delivery ( CADD), 2D work flows and various tasks of Drawings formatting. It was quite a challenge to get myself up and running in the Bentley AECOsim environment, pre configured in very specific way. Project had ProjectWise Common Data environment, that I undertook to improve by introducing Title Block Integration; I simplified composition structure of the models ( Model-
Master-Composition-Drawing-Sheet) and re-utilized Composition Models to be main contributor of the 3D data to sheets. Another challenge was to introduce 3 additional teams from Global Delivery Service from India, Barcelona and Baltimore, that utilized GrassHopper- generated parametric geometry converted to Revit via IFC format, and from Revit via IFC was converted to AECOsim dgn format; conversions required very careful
maintenance protocol; as welll extensive consultation with the Bentley Business Support unit on datagroup configurations and families and parts assignments.

Yet another challenge waas dealing with the issue of Grid and Ground Coordinate systems of geo-referencing, as Aecosim environment, though capable of handling Grid and Ground system, used localized coordinate as AECOsim model was designed in millimeter space for precision, while all the alignment information was delivered in Meter- based workspace and Global Origin; on top of that, Revit input does not have concept of Grid and Ground, and as such, can only be configured to generate drawings in one of the two references. Topic was pretty complex and convoluted even for advanced software users; it took about 1 month to develop a white paper in collaboration with Bentley Civil product line specialist, explaining the workflow of bringing all Revit, Civil and AECOsim products together. Among other things, Navisworks was extensively used for coordination of all the models; additional workflow that was successfully used was BIM 360 Docs next generation.Continue next page (if required)




APPLICATION FOR CanBIM CP CERTIFICATION	28
Continued (if required)


Direct Supervisor's Declara i	•
I declare that the pr	iption is an accurate summary of the applicant's experience.






APPLICATION FOR CanBIM CP CERTIFICATION	27
Appendix A/P3- Experience Summary for Professional level 3 - Software

Project #:Project Name:
TTC Relief Line South ProjectProject Location:
Toronto, ONEmployer/Company Name:
AECOMSoftware Utilized:
Revit, BIM 360, Navisworks Practical ExperienceFromToTotal
HoursMonthYearMonthYearJanuary2019June2019300Referring to the instructions indicated on page 15 & 18, provide a detailed summary about the nature and complexity of work undertaken, in the specific discipline within the BIM process, demonstrating applied working knowledge and skills in the use of BIM-related software. It is recommended that descriptions be as specific as possible with examples where applicable. Direct references to the BIM process must be provided.
Relief Line South was a project that AECOM undertook to design from 0% to 30% for possible extension to 60% and 100% ( Full design package for Tender).
Project contained 2 interchange stations in the Relief Line South, as well as tie- in the existing parking structure.
Beside a trivial BIM setup and BIM Execution configuration of the project, as part of design work flow and reduction of the design cost, I undertook the imitative to create automated process of Revit- based design production and conversion to TTC- compatible deliverable in form of 2D DGN models.
I developed a software pipeline with extensive use of Micro station Batch Script language and conversion tables on the Revit side, complete replacement of out-of-the-box Revit configuration by TTC- modified layout, that was deriving it's format and families graphics from TTC CADD Package; I established specific Views and Sheet views organization, as well as vocabulary checker, that is normalizing Sheet content description to the match standardized abbreviated name of the sheet file and view names corresponding to the Master file names; Also, with help and assistance of GDS India team, we developed custom families for all mechanical and electrical annotation content, and were able to produce Revit PDF that were indistinguishable from PDF's produced from Bentley Micro station.
At the same time, DGN deliverables needed to be normalized and assigned with proper global origin location, design space scale, moved from design to model space etc. Work is effectively completed and now is a proprietary knowledge of AECOM Canada for future use.with the Transportation client.Continue next page (if required)





APPLI ATI  N rOR	anDIM	P	UHlf I  A11  N	2

Direct Supervisor's Deel	:
I declare that the preced	crlptlon Is an accurate summary of the applicant's experience

Si nature:Name: Nicholas  Bo	Date: 1-ZcjvSupervisor's Email Address: nicholas.bogle@aecom.comSupervisor's Tel. No:+  1-905-747-7690


	






Appendix B/P3
Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Management

The information and details provided in this Appendix will be assessed to determine if the applicant has:

1. Through professional experience, successfully mastered the management of the BIM process as related to the business, project, design or construction management aspects of a project within the applicant's designated discipline

2. A command of the management plan and protocols in a management/administrative role in building and/or infrastructure projects within a multi-discipline Building Information Modelling process.
QQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQ
This appendix contains eight {8) summary pages for your use; use these pages and any additional pages as required.

The applicant may include additional appendices or documentation, including project documents, where there is appropriate reference to the work and, which supplement the summary and will serve as support documentation.

If additional pages are added it is REQUIRED that the applicant append the pages at the end of the document with corresponding page numbers in order to allow CanBIM Reviewers and Assessors to adequately interpret the information in its proper order.
Failure to do this may result in a deferral and/or delay in the processing of the application. QQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQ


Appendix B/P3 - Experience Summary for Professional level 3 - Management

Project #1Project Name:
Krimbel Discovery CentreProject Location:
Toronto, ONEmployer/Company Name:
EllisDonApplicant's Role: Practical ExperienceFromToTotal HoursMonthYearMonthYearFeb2011Nov20111540Referring to the instructions indicated on page 15 & 18, provide a detailed summary of your specific role, activities and responsibilities in the management of the BIM process as related to business management, and/or project management and/or design management and/or construction management in your designated discipline It is recommended that descriptions be as specific as possible with examples where applicable. Direct references to the BIM process must be provided.
my first BIM - enabled project with EllisDon was KDC (Krimbel Discovery Centre in Downtown Toronto under UHC), this project was IPD ( Integrated Project Delivery) contract, and Revit- enabled BIM process . Project was essentially modelled by Architectural and Structural Consultants, and Black and Mackdonald Mechanical and Electrical partners of Ellisdon were responsible for the process of MEP coordination of their own teams.

This project was a testing ground for my new role as BIM deployment manager, and established fairly scalable pattern for next years to come on multiple projects.

Project included for setting up BIM process on the Krimbel discovery Centre construction project for EllisDon Construction management team, integration of the Virtual Design and Construction process in Design and Construction activities ( Project Document Control, Assessment of the scope of modeling, capabilities of Consultants, Trades and ED Team, Directing Consultant's design work with BIM Implementation, defining BIM Scope,
Coordination Schedule, Contractual agreements. Deployment and
training of BIM Coordinator and assistance. Main issues that were dealt with, included for unclear job definition of VDC Coordinator ( as he often wore a modeller hat, designer hat and trade hat, which was in conflict of interest and often created "imaginary wishful model" that was not backed up by proper change management process; another issue was ever changing scope of clashes and what should constitute "clash - free" model.
Most challenging was a perception of BIM as a novel process that promised magical solutions and was under-delivering; while none of the participants saw themselve part of the BIM team, and looked at VDC/BIM coordinator to deliver answers;Continue next page (if required)


Continued (if required)


Direct Supervisor's Declaration:
I declare that the preceding information and description is an accurate summary of the applicant's experience.

Signature:Name: Tom StrongJuly 31, 2019
Date:Supervisor's Email Address: tstrong@canbim.com6476753586
Supervisor's Tel. No:

Appendix B/P3 - Experience Summary for Professional level 3 - Management

Project #2Project Name:
Sick Kids HospitalProject Location:
Toronto, ONEmployer/Company Name:
EllisDonApplicant's Role:
Sr. BIM Coordinator Practical ExperienceFromToTotal HoursMonthYearMonthYearAug2011Apr20121000Referring to the instructions indicated on page 15 & 18, provide a detailed summary of your specific role, activities and responsibilities in the management of the BIM process as related to business management, and/or project management and/or design management and/or construction management in your designated discipline It is recommended that descriptions be as specific as possible with examples where applicable. Direct references to the BIM process must be provided
Project included for setting up BIM process on the Sick Kids Hospital construction project in Toronto for EllisDon Construction management team, integration of the Virtual Design and Construction process in Design and Construction activities ( Project Document Control, Assessment of the scope of modeling, capabilities of Consultants, Trades and ED Team, Directing Consultant's design work with BIM Implementation, defining BIM Scope, Coordination Schedule, Contractual agreements. Deployment and training of BIM Coordinator and assistance.

Sick Kids Hospital job was one of the most challenging to go through, as it involved subcontracting of Mechanical and later Electrical work to BIM modelling company on a lump sum contract basis. Consultant has very different BIM modelling style, that was based on non- elaborative one-time LOD 400 level model production with pre- coordination effort done on paper with 2D drawings. in that ennvironment, benefit of BIM Coordination is completely lost, and realistically, the deliverable is only a final model with dubious coordination quality, entirely dependant on the quality of the coordination sketches and without input of coordination team. This job was a "war of opinions and experiences" where common sense was often the only way to referee the situation. This coordination process resulted in fast depletion of the budget that was allotted for coordination, and replacement of the coordination entity by outsourcing company, that introduced different kind of complexity o the process, involving difficulty of understanding issues and latency of the response by the outsorced actor, associated with work in the different time zone. This job taught me value of perception, resourcefulness, and timing of effort spended, that sometimes modelling once is not the best economical strategy.Continue next page (if required)



Continued (if required)


Direct Supervisor's Declaration:
I declare that the preceding information and description is an accurate summary of the applicant's experience.

Signature:Name: Tom Strong
Date:Supervisor's Email Address: tstrong@canbim.com
Supervisor's Tel. No:

Appendix B/P3 - Experience Summary for Professional level 3 - Management

Project #3Project Name:
Ryerson University - Student Learning Center Campus:Project Location:
Toronto, ONEmployer/Company Name:
EllisDonApplicant's Role:
BIM Deployment Manager Practical ExperienceFromToTotal HoursMonthYearMonthYearOct2012OctOct960Referring to the instructions indicated on page 15 & 18, provide a detailed summary of your specific role, activities and responsibilities in the management of the BIM process as related to business management, and/or project management and/or design management and/or construction management in your designated discipline It is recommended that descriptions be as specific as possible with examples where applicable. Direct references to the BIM process must be provided.
Project included for setting up BIM process on the Ryerson University CLS construction project for EllisDon Construction management team, integration of the Virtual Design and Construction process in management activities ( Project Document Control, Assessment of the scope of modeling, capabilities of Consultants, Trades and ED Team), defining BIM Scope, Coordination Schedule, Contractual agreements. Deploying BIM Coordinator on the job site, educating on his primary and secondary roles as BIM/Project coordinator, initiating coordination process. Job was set to design and construct a library with multi-planar facade system with challenging construction frame, Model was created by ZPA Architects, where main architec was iconic architectural company Snøhetta. I developed and proposed to utilize Scanning Services to develop structural connection to the existing building. Scanning was provided and pointcloud was used to identify back - of- house walls of the adjacent property; BIM coordinator/ Project Coordinator was deployed on the project in a framework of the PnL service to EllisDon Construction; person was trained to model in Revit, use pointcloud scans for modeling features, to identify clashes, engage in design coordination, and to onboard trades ( Mechanical, Electrical, Steel and Fire Protection) with BIM capabilities; as well, due to complexity of forms, in-house EllisDon modelling team was engaged to create composition model, that would take Structural top features and slab edge and combine them with properly sized beams, columns and pads in order to produce geometrically correct model for trade coordination, especially for all steel connections, Facade system and special sleeves.Continue next page (if required)



Continued (if required)


Direct Supervisor's Declaration:
I declare that the preceding information and description is an accurate summary of the applicant's experience.

Signature:Name: Tom Strongjuly 31, 2019
Date:Supervisor's Email Address: tstrong@canbim.com6476753586
Supervisor's Tel. No:

Appendix B/P3 - Experience Summary for Professional Level 3 - Management

Project #:Project Name:Project Location:Employer/Company Name:Applicant's Role: Practical ExperienceFromToTotal HoursMonthYearMonthYearReferring to the instructions indicated on page 15 & 18, provide a detailed summary of your specific role, activities and responsibilities in the management of the BIM process as related to business management, and/or project management and/or design management and/or construction management in your designated discipline It is recommended that descriptions be as specific as possible with examples where applicable. Direct references to the BIM process must be provided.Continue next page (if required)


Continued (if required)


Direct Supervisor's Declaration:
I declare that the preceding information and description is an accurate summary of the applicant's experience.

Signature:
Name:
Date:
Supervisor's Email Address:
Supervisor's Tel. No:




















END OF P3 APPENDICES




Any additional material to support these Appendices {if applicable) should be inserted immediately following this page.

Please see page 3 of this application for information on order of documents.























START OF CP APPENDIX





INFORMATION REGARDING APPENDIX FOR CANBIM CP CERTIFICATION

CP Certification is a competency-based assessment, which recognizes knowledge and skills repeatedly practiced over the course of multiple projects, exclusively within a professional setting. The submitted description of professional experience provided in Appendix A/CP will be assessed according to the minimum Competency Targets for CanBIM CP certification.

CP Competency Targets:
1. Pre-requisite: CanBIM Professional Level 3 {P3) Certification
2. Competency: Command of the work processes, core skills common to all fields
* Sufficient evidence of their role in multiple building/infrastructure projects utilizing an integrated multi- discipline Building Information Modelling process
* Sufficient evidence of having defined the standard Building Information Modelling processes and established the Building Information Modelling implementation strategies for those projects
* Sufficient evidence of having developed company-wide implementation strategies for the adoption of BIM practices within their organization
* Sufficient evidence of having developed the organizational execution plan and BIM procurement plan using the BIM planning protocol to assess level of detail requirements for BIMs using the Level of Development {LOD) framework of Development {LOD) framework.

Note: Some Capabilities in Implementation Strategies: {this list is non-exhaustive)

* Evaluate the processes involved in establishing BIM implementation strategies for design and construction.
* Create strategic planning guidelines for adopting BIM practices within an organization.
* Execute an organizational BIM plan within the operational structure of a company.
* Assemble a BIM procurement plan by implementing control guidelines and contractual requirements.
* Develop a standard BIM project execution plan.
* Prepare needs assessment for various industry stakeholders for BIM project planning and implementation.
* Determine the level of detail requirements for BIM models using the Level of Development {LOD) framework.
* Implement a consistent LOD standard throughout the organization for effective planning and execution of construction projects.
* Conduct initial process consultations to define Building Information Modeling goals and deliverables.
* Facilitate BIM software selection, configuration, and training. Manage integration, collaboration and inter- operability within the BIM environment.
* Implement BIM processes effectively within integrated project design and construction.
* Create and manipulate Building Information Models for each of the LOD phases

NOTE 1: Examples:
The list above consists of non-exclusive and non-exhaustive examples only and applicants should not consider it a limitation in knowledge or skills. The above-noted examples are only intended to provide general direction and guidance on the level and degree that should be distinguished and detailed in the enclosed Appendix A/CP - Experience Summary for Certified Professional (CP). Applicants are encouraged to expand beyond the points listed above, if applicable, in order to further outline their professional experience.

NOTE 2: P3 Pre-requisite (REQUIRED)
Where an applicant is applying directly to CanBIM CP without having the required CanBIM P3 prerequisite, the applicant MUST fulfill the required CanBIM P3 prerequisite in completing Appendix A/P3 and Appendix B/P3 included in this document.


Appendix A/CP
Experience Summary for Certified Professional (CP)
The information provided in this Appendix will be assessed to determine if the applicant has provided sufficient evidence of their professional experience in the implementation and facilitation of multiple projects utilizing a fully integrated multi-discipline Building Information Modelling process. Assessment targets to be considered are:

1. Defining the standard Building Information Modelling processes and established the Building Information Modelling implementation strategies for those projects.

2. Developing company-wide implementation strategies for the adoption of Building Information Modelling practices within their organization.

3. Developing the organizational execution plan and Building Information Modelling procurement plan using the Building Information Modelling planning protocol to assess level of detail requirements for BIMs using the Level of Development {LOD) framework of Development {LOD) framework.
QQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQ
This appendix contains eight {8) summary pages for your use; use these pages and any additional pages as required.

The applicant may include additional appendices or documentation, including project documents, where there is appropriate reference to the work and, which supplement the summary and will serve as support documentation.

If additional pages are added it is REQUIRED that the applicant append the pages at the end of the document with corresponding page numbers in order to allow CanBIM Reviewers and Assessors to adequately interpret the information in its proper order.
Failure to do this may result in a deferral and/or delay in the processing of the application. QQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQ


Appendix A/CP - Experience Summary for Certified Professional CP

Project #1Project Name:
TTC SSEProject Location:
Scarborough, ONEmployer/Company Name:
AECOMApplicant's Role:
BIM Manager Practical ExperienceFromToTotal HoursMonthYearMonthYearOctober2018June2019Referring to the information/guidelines provided on pages 40 and 41, provide a detailed summary of your specific role, activities and responsibilities. It is strongly recommended that descriptions be as specific as possible with examples where applicable. Direct references to items indicated on pages 40 and 41 must be provided.

on October 23, 2018, I was hired as BIM manager for AECOM's Markham Buildings and Places office.
B+P as a Design Consultant has different need and level of BIM adoption than Construction environment. My role as BIM manager is still unfolding.
My understanding of the role is growing as I learn the ropes of the business environment of Architectural and Engineering Consultant, and it's strategy in response to Government Clients portfolio. Company has wast resources, including Global Delivery Services and multi-region core BIM team with it's robust processes and teams to tap to. Since October I strategically placed myself in the interdiscipline environment, being accessible not only by the Architectural Department, but also leveraging my interdisciplinary experience to reach out to all disciplines and engineerinc consultants, as well as being instrumental to Project Management Team in supporting Document Control and Coordination processes, and constantly pushing limits of established paper-driven processes.
At the moment, I am developing Process driven ( as oppose to paper- driven) Design BPM somehow based on OAA and AIA practices, introducing ISO 19650 - driven methodology of model progression and concepts of Common Data Environment, thereby departing from CADD- driven workflows and introducing process-oriented design development and coordination. over the past 10 month, i intimately understood practice of Bentley AECOsim setup and it's production challenges, and was able to pick up the abandoned BIM process and to establish "fall-back" safety net for the design team by streamlining product support via multiple Bentley Business support groups, using SharePoint p2p internet hub;
Organizing "Raising issue" meetings with Software specialists; Developing instructional videos and white paper to support project needs.

Realizing, that in the cash- strapped and overhead- lean projectized environment, all the R&D should be done "after hours" and to bring proven results to the team, approach is to raise talent "on the go" and "from within";
There is a need to automate and integrate tasks so it will became fabric of the daily life of the design firm;
Most importantly, not to over- burdent production floor with "yet another layer" of support service, and instead make evryone a BIM user and participant, not a BIM "consumer"
In this environment, leveraging the system resources is the key.Continue next page (if required)




APPLICATION FOR CanBIM CP CERTIFICATION	43
Continued (if required)


Direct Supervisor's Declarati  ·
I declare that the precedi	d description is an accurate summary of the applicant's experience.

Signature:Name: NichSupervisor's Email Address: nicholas.bogle@aecom.comSupervisor's Tel. No:+ 1-905-747-7690

Appendix A/CP - Experience Summary for Certified Professional CP

Project #2Project Name:
CROSSLINX TRANSIT SOLUTIONS (CTS).Project Location:
Toronto, CanadaEmployer/Company Name:
EllisDonApplicant's Role:
BIM Manager Practical ExperienceFromToTotal HoursMonthYearMonthYearJune2015October20185,000Referring to the information/guidelines provided on pages 40 and 41, provide a detailed summary of your specific role, activities and responsibilities. It is strongly recommended that descriptions be as specific as possible with examples where applicable. Direct references to items indicated on pages 40 and 41 must be provided.
? Responsible for setup and implementation of BIM program for the ECLRT (6.5 Billion RTI project) during design and construction from June 2015 to June 2018.
? Managing 6 Segment BIM teams with total reporting personnel of 12 people and dozens of BIM users across the
project.
? Providing and developing specifications for BIM, CADD and Surveying, Document Control and As-Built programs, BIM /CADD Software training program, in accordance with BIM Execution Plan.


I started my deployment on the project 2 months before official start of the project. After preliminary review of the contract language pertaining Service Agreement between Design JV and Construction JV, and the Project Agreement, I identified statutory role of BIM on the project and the main stakeholder with vested interest in BIM outcomes to be Constructor JV (CTSD); whereas our client ( Project CO) and our client's Client ( Metrolinx) were primarily interested in implicit benefits of BIM, while not explicitly requiring the approach. Main challenges of the BIM programme, therefore, became un- mandated nature of BIM, proof of the benefit to the Constructor JV and induction of proper procedure of creating BIM process on the Consultant JV side, where Consultant had it's own issues with organizing it's mosaic team, comprised of several non-core consultancies ( Core consultancy group being SNC Lavalin- IBI partnership, where numerous consultants, such as NORR, RJC, Lea, and others were hired on a lump sum basis to support to the Design services up to Construction Documentation, and had very different levels of engagement on the project from expertise, internal organization, project effort and workload.
Additional challenge was to identify gaps in Constructor's JV coverage of the contract requirement. Certain disciplines - such as SUE, Topographical survey and geometry Control of the project, have not been answered at the time of BIM deployment; as well Document Control did not include for Common Data Environment organization in the proposal; Asset Classifications documentation, as well as Quality Control Plan and Project Control Plan have not been addressing unique configuration of the Design Build contract, and instead addressed EPC ( Engineering Procurement Construction ) type of contract, without proper organization of procurement process with adequate staffing. I took temporary roles of Chief Surveying Manager, Data Manager and assistant to Procurement process, in order to establish and influence these processes, as absence or inadequate configuration of these would lead to deficiency in supply of BIM data, a lot of rework and efectively would render BIM effort expensive and marginally efficient.
Additional challenge on the project was very different level of CADD and BIM proficiency of modellers and drafters. Project's challenge was to deal with complexity of Revit and AutoCAD- based skill sets of the majority of the domestic and overseas talent, as well as demand for Autodesk- based outputs by the Trades ( on the local market), and rigit contract requirement by Metrolinx and TTC to supply documentation in Bentley Microstation format.
Design stakeholder ( Designer JV) provided for their own CADD and BIM Managers, that pursued somewhat similar agendas with Constructor JV, with shortfalls of talent, training, tough delivery schedule, untested mechanism of design delivery under DB contract to Metrolinx. this required from me to establish rigorous progress assessment regime of approximately 120 models ( 5 models per typical station of total 15 stations, EMSF facility, Existing models and Tunnel structure).
I handpicked my first BIM coordinators for the project ( 6 in total), and allowed for 3-4 month time to acuire skills and proficiencyh in modelling and interoperability studies for Revit, Microstation, Descartes , Bentley Navigator, Navisworks, AECOsim ,InRoads and AutoCAD programs,Continue next page (if required)


Continued (if required)
I rolled out 4-5 weekly in-class training sessions for MicroStation users, and one weekly session for Inroads.
Together with Training Manager, we created program for online Autodesk training with specific training context.
Together with IT Manager, we established independent Bentley Project Wise Common Data Environment with fully featured workflows, connecting drafting and Construction Support CDE with Design CDE and developing business process for Document Control team operation.
As project was evolving, additional tasks came to attention of the BIM group. Construction phase brought additional challenge of construction documentation utilizing BIM technology. As multidisciplinary approach, I always believed that BIM is a process that aims to integrate and if possible, automate AEC deliverables, and that goes beyond utilization of software, and extends to redefining role of the key players in the design and construction process.
Estimators, Schedulers, Design Managers, Document Controllers, IT support, Procurement, Construction- all shall be looked at as BIM participant, and that is impossible without redefining their roles in the process.
I reviewed contract language of Service Agreement, and with assistance with the Project Legal Council created internal narrative, justifying specific requests of the Constructor to demand certain level of BIM delivery from the Designer group; as well, we amended General Conditions and Procurement Scope of Work documentation with technical description of minimum BIM requirements from specific vendors; We created Technical Specifications addressing Model delivery in Technical Specifications, especially divisions 23-48
( Mechanical and Electrical); in conjunction with Survey team, we developed interface language for Surveyors and to Tradesmen on accurate layout procedures for station's mechanical and Electrical elements;
During critical period of renegotiation of the contract schedule with the City of Toronto, our team created stunning 4D animations of the critical path construction sequences and the "blue sky" initiatives, demonstrating alternative road closures and TTMP plans, allowing us to compress time with specific allowances from the City and enabling Crosslinx to finish project in time.

My last significant initiative on the project was to develop As-Built program as part of the construction- commissioning phase planning. This was truly team effort with influx of knowledge on the topic from recent graduates of JV partners, that experienced

Direct Supervisor's Declaration:
I declare that the preceding information and description is an accurate summary of the applicant's experience.

Signature:Name: Tom Strongjuly, 31, 2019
Date:Supervisor's Email Address: tstrong@canbim.com6476753586
Supervisor's Tel. No:

Appendix A/CP - Experience Summary for Certified Professional CP

Project #3Project Name:
ProgrammeProject Location:
Canada-WideEmployer/Company Name:
EllisDonApplicant's Role:
BIM Deployment Manager Practical ExperienceFromToTotal HoursMonthYearMonthYearMarch2010June20157,000Referring to the information/guidelines provided on pages 40 and 41, provide a detailed summary of your specific role, activities and responsibilities. It is strongly recommended that descriptions be as specific as possible with examples where applicable. Direct references to items indicated on pages 40 and 41 must be provided.
See next page for narative.Continue next page (if required)



Continued (if required)
Responsible for the set-up of BIM field operations, including execution plans, BIM manuals, contract addenda. Led the team in setup and integration of the VDC process with trade agreements, document control, design coordination and change management.
I was hired to EllisDon in March 2010, and spent couple of months in the office environment, preparing documentation for BIM deployments. Tom Strong just organized the department at that time, and hired his first employee, Chris Little from Allumination Ltd, and former MEP foreman from Modern Niagra. I was employee number two. We developed our first BIM execution plan from combination of Indiana University, USACE corps BIM document and VA BIM Execution Plan document ( At the time we were not aware of Penn State BxP template). Our first BIM- enabled project was KDC (Krimbel Discovery Centre in Downtown Toronto under UHC), this project was IPD ( Integrated Project Delivery) contract, and Revit- enabled BIM process was first tested by Tim Quinlan, our first VDC Coordinator. Project was essentially modelled by Architectural and Structural Consultants, and Black and Mackdonald Mechanical and Electrical partners of Ellisdon were responsibe for the process of MEP coordination of their own teams.
This project was a testing ground for my new role as BIM deployment manager, and established fairly scalable pattern for next years to come on multiple projects.
As BIM/VDC deployment manager, I functionally managed and oversaw BIM program on the large P3 Hospital projects (Krembil Discovery Centre, Sick Kids Hospital, COT, Calgary International Airport, New Oakville Hospital, Surrey Memorial Hospital - Critical Care Tower, Waterpark Place Phase 3 Tower, Providence Health Care Hospital), Civil Infrastructure projects (VivaNext H3, H2, H2VMC Highway 7 East Rapid way), Data Centers ( Monteral Ericsson, Barrie TD Bank) with extensive experience leading and supporting BIM teams.
This included training of new-coming BIM coordinators to Interference management, document control, handling models, modelling techniques, understanding contract specifics, and various interoperability issues. Large portion of that role included for developing interpersonal skills and leadership and mentor skills. During my time in Ellisdon, I re-wrote template BIM Execution manual of EllisDon, made BIM amendment to Contract's Appendix A of General Conditions in cooperation with Christian Wiechmann of Commercial
Services & Project Controls at EllisDon. At the same time, as BIM expanded it's application beyond clash detection, I was developing and operationalizing scanning services for Ellisdon's Geomatics Group, profit-and-loss group engaged in laser scanning of existing conditions for major renovation projects (Yorkdale Mall, Markham Mall Expansion, YYZ T3 Renovation etc.), that later became quite successful enterprise under Vincent Zhang.

Direct Supervisor's Declaration:
I declare that the preceding information and description is an accurate summary of the applicant's experience.

Signature:Name: Tom Strongjuly 31, 2019
Date:Supervisor's Email Address: tstrong@canbim.com6476753586
Supervisor's Tel. No:




















END OF CP APPENDIX
&
END OF APPLICATION FORM




Any additional material to support these Appendices {if applicable) should be inserted immediately following this page.

Please see page 3 of this application for information on order of documents and submission instructions.






TECHNION
ISRAEL	INSTITUTE	OF	TECHNOLOGY

This is to certify that

Denis Erlich

having successfully undertaken and co111pleted the prescribed course of study fulfilled all the require1nents and passed the appropriate exan1inations in accordance with the statutes and regulations of the Technion
is avvarded the degree of

Bachelor of Scie11ce
i11 Civil E11gi11eeri11g

in the..111onth of April 2000
with all the rights and privileges pertaining thereto


President	            Provost
Dean, Faculty of Civil Engineering

L,cil L!GCll'.;C\l! £:;L!CLQL! NlU.kU
1·!0P,.,vlC>

(\	c	Ll Cl,LU (i\Qdcu ULNL lU cuLLri\ c,al U(ih:a
'



CUCLCll! N LIJ(U
C(lClC<L	C(L(\(O



GLLCLOC\




LC\ ,aLL L!,ri\t,L QLC\Cd	l	UULNL CUUNO c;uLdU Lc;u dCLU (i\c; UC\CC,Ll LC\QL [[U,CLU cL:c;cu
(i\(IJ La,,? (C{lL,L CULd C{( N Ult:LU,L cudl















: -"

/"'	UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES

il:.n:u:m 81'ill')an,

,,TECHNION - ISRAEL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TECHNION CITY, HAIFA 32000, ISRAEL

'1N1\llJ1a,0;11 D::>o 11:m - 1111:"on
32000 il!IJ1fl ,ll1DOil J111j7


TRANSCRIPTOF ERLICH DENIS I.D. 312960537	WHOCOMPLETEDHISSTUDIES FOR THE DEGREE B.SC. IN CIVIL ENGINEERING
IN THE 1999-00 WINTER SEMESTER IN THE FACULTY OF CIVIL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING AND ACCUMULATED 157.0	CREDIT POINTS, WITH A GRADE POINT AVERAGE OF 81.0
SUBJECT	CREDITS	GRADE	SEMESTER
















I

































































2.5	87	1998-99 SPRING

UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES
,HNION - ISRAEL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
TECHNION CITY, HAIFA 32000, ISRAEL

i1Ji?OoD 11ev.)8
'nnVi!J• • 111l)O 11::lJff) - ll'DOil
32000 al •n ,jl1])0il 111li7



TRANSCRIPTOF	ERLICH DENIS I.D. 312960537


SUBJECTCREDITSGRADESEMESTER314101
INTRO. TO MATERIALS ENGINEERING 32.5
EXEMPT WITH CREDITS324012TECHNICAL ENGLISH3.0EXEMPT WITH CREDITS324054BIBLE (FOR NEW IMMIGRANTS)1. 5861997-98 WINTER324055HISTORY (FOR NEW IMMIGRANTS)1.5931996-97 SPRING324185BEIT HAMIDRASH 11. 5901999-00 WINTER324600GERMAN (BEGINNERS) 12.0931996-97 SPRING324685ADVANCED ENGLISH CONVERSATION2.0901999-00 WINTER394800PHYSICAL EDUCATION COURSES1.0EXEMPT WITH CREDITS394801PHYSICAL EDUCATION COURSES1.0EXEMPT WITH CREDITS
END OF TRANSCRIPT




I HEREBY CONFIRM

HAT THE INFORMATION GIVEN ABpVE IS CORRECT
1 .	;  .	I	• ,.·J"lf"-"" j  :
'
•c,·•1; •,	'lfr ! I
:,, ,I
.. ,	I




HAIFA, 03.10.2004

!	·; I : EDNA.ADLER	')	:
sEC , -t y 1uNpERGRAqu _1J 1. I PIEf
OFFICE' (Jf' _,,·!' •':F.1 ;'  '\) ','fF s J'UDIES
1--	-··	- -· .	,,. .	·	-..,,...--










J.















,,





TECHNION
ISRAEL	INSTITUTE	OF	TECHNOLOGY

This is to certify that

Denis Erlich

having successfully undertaken and completed the prescribed course of study fulfilled all the requirements and passed the appropriate examinations in accordance with the statutes and regulations of the Technion
. is awarded the degree of

Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering

in the month of April 2000
with all the rights and privileges pertaining thereto


Aw,oS,	l"i'iJo-C
President



Dean, Faculty of Civil Engineering

- ----- --y	b,..
Provost



RYERSON UNIVERSITY	Page 1 of 1



Name:	Denis Erlich Student ID: 500325274


Print Date:	04/26/2012
Birthdate:	02/25/1975










Academic Program History

Continuing Education

Program:	Non Certificate Program
12/12/2008:	Active in Program
12/12/2008:	Non Certificate Studies Course(s) Beginning of Continuing Education Record
Winter 2012

Session:Regular
Course	Description	Attempted	Earned	Grade	Points

CKPM	202	Fundamentals of Project Mgmt

1.000	1.000	A	4.000


Attempted	Earned  GPA Units	Points







S T U - V I E W
















Final Grades	100692123 Denis Erlich
Sep 26, 2009 08:17 am
The following are your grades for the term requested.

The grades displayed on STU-VIEW are only for courses taken from the Spring 1995 to present. If you wish to review course grades prior to this period you will have to request an Official Transcript .

Please click here for an explanation of the College's grading policy on special grading symbols, amended grades and the minium grade point average required.

Student Information
Current Program
Cert.of Academ.Achiev.or Compl
Level:	Con-Ed Credit
Program:	Continuing Education Studies
Admit Term:	Spring 2009
Admit Type:	Quick Admit (ConEd Registrtn)
Catalog Term:	Spring 2009
College:	Continuous Learning
Major:	Continuing Education Studies
Academic Standing:


Con-Ed Credit Course work
CRN Subject Course Section Course Title	Campus Final
Grade


Attempted Earned GPA
Hours


Quality Points

81448 CADE	9088	0	AUTODESK REVIT I-
INTRO.CONCEPT

Off Campus

A+	6.400	6.400	0.000	0.00


Con-Ed Credit Summary
Attempted Earned GPA Hours Quality Points GPA

Current Term:6.4006.4000.0000.000.00Cumulative:6.4006.4000.0000.000.00Transfer:0.0000.0000.0000.000.00Overall:6.4006.4000.0000.000.00Select Another Term



RELEASE: 7.3







S T U - V I E W















Display Unofficial Transcript	100692123 Denis Erlich

This is NOT an official transcript.
Courses which are in progress may also be included on this transcript.

The unofficial transcripts displayed on STU-VIEW are only for courses taken from the term: Spring 1995 to present. If you wish to review course grades prior to this period, or if you wish to obtain an Official Transcript with your name on it, you will have to request an Official Transcript from Academic Records. Please see previous page for instructions on "Requesting an Official Transcript."

Institution Credit	Transcript Totals

Transcript Data
STUDENT INFORMATION

Curriculum Information

Current Program
College:	Continuous Learning
Major:	Continuing Education Studies

***Transcript type:UNFF is NOT Official ***



INSTITUTION CREDIT	-Top-


Spring 2009
College:	Continuous Learning
Major:	Continuing Education Studies
Academic Standing:
Subject Course Level Title	Grade	Credit Hours





Quality Points





Start and End Dates





R CEU Contact Hours

CADE	9088	CE	AUTODESK REVIT I-
INTRO.CONCEPT

A+	6.400	0.00	Apr 29, 2009 to
Aug 26, 2009

64.000

Attempt Hours

Passed Hours

CEU
Hours

GPA
Hours

Quality Points

GPA


Current Term:6.4006.400	6.4000.0000.000.00Cumulative:6.4006.400	6.4000.0000.000.00
Unofficial Transcript
TRANSCRIPT TOTALS (CON-ED CREDIT)	-Top-


Attempt Hours

Passed Hours

CEU
Hours

GPA
Hours

Quality Points

GPA

Total Institution:	6.400	6.400	6.400	0.000	0.00	0.00
Overall:	6.400	6.400	6.400	0.000	0.00	0.00


Unofficial Transcript


RELEASE: 7.2







S T U - V I E W
















100692123 Denis Erlich
Sep 26, 2009 08:16 am

 This is your account summary.
Click here to view the amount that you owe - Fee Payment Options.

SummaryAccount Balance:$0.00Spring 2009Detail Code DescriptionChargePaymentCSF	CONED Campus Service Fee$19.38DT85	CE Tuit Funded-Technology$314.62MTNR	CE Fund MAT FEE-Tech(norefund)$175.00STCH	Con.Ed Technology Fee$4.00STIF	Student Ty.Infrastructure Fee$20.00WCVI	VISA ConEdWebPayment-Thank you$533.00Term Charges:$533.00Term Credits and Payments:$533.00Term Balance:$0.00Account Balance:$0.00RELEASE: 7.3.3
Denis Erlich, B.Sc., PMP
BIM/VDC Manager


Education
Technion, Israel Institute of technology Haifa, Israel 1996 - 2000, Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.)
- Structural Engineering and Construction Management Undergraduate Program.
Ryerson University, Toronto, ON; 2011 - 2012
- KPM 202 Fundamentals of Project Management
- CKPM 213 Management of Projects in the AEC

Years of Experience
With AECOM:	<1
With Other Firms: 18

Professional Affiliations
Register Of Engineers And Architects Tel Aviv, Israel 2003
- Registered Civil Engineer in the Civil Engineering branch in the General Civil section, Number of Certificate 00116107
Project Management Institute Toronto, ON 2014-present
- Project Management Professional in good standing, PMP Number: 1730719




Summary

Denis is a BIM/VDC Manager with 10+ years of experience in Building Information modelling and 15+ years in Construction Industry - BSc of Technion- Israeli Institute of Technology. Experienced in ICI and Civil Infrastructure Projects. Promoter of use of data in construction.


Project Experience

AECOM Canada, Buildings + Places; 2018- Current BIM Manager, B+P
* Responsible for setup, implementation and support of BIM programs on Government-funded design projects during various
stages.
* 	Providing and developing specifications, design coordination support and technical assistance and advice on various BIM and CADD topics.
* 	Developing BIM and CADD Software training programs; Coordinating training sessions for the Design Teams during project delivery.


Crosslinx Transit Solutions (CTS), Toronto; 2015 - 2018 BIM Manager, CTS Constructors
* 	Responsible for setup and implementation of BIM program for the ECLRT (6.5 Billion RTI project) during design and construction.
* 	Providing and developing specifications for BIM, CADD and Surveying, Document Control and As-Built programs, BIM /CADD Software training program, in accordance with BIM Execution Plan.
* Managing 6 Segment BIM teams with total reporting personnel of 12 people and dozens of BIM users across the project.

Ellis Don Inc., Toronto; 2010 - 2015 BIM Deployment Manager
* 	Responsible for the set-up of BIM field operations, including execution plans, BIM manuals, contract addenda. Led the team in setup and integration of the VDC process with trade agreements, document control, design coordination and change management.

* 	As BIM/VDC deployment manager, functionally managed and oversaw BIM program on the large P3 Hospital projects (Krembil Discovery Centre, Sick Kids Hospital, COT, Calgary International Airport, New Oakville Hospital, Surrey Memorial Hospital - Critical Care Tower, Waterpark Place Phase 3 Tower, Providence Health Care Hospital), Civil Infrastructure projects (VivaNext H3, H2, H2VMC Highway 7 East Rapid way), with extensive experience leading and supporting BIM teams.
* 	Developed and operationalized scanning services for Ellisdon's Geomatics Group, profit-and-loss group engaged in laser scanning of existing conditions for major renovation projects (Yorkdale Mall, Markham Mall Expansion, YYZ T3 Renovation etc.).


PCL Constructors, Toronto; 2009 - 2010 BIM/VDC Coordinator
* Emerged to the Niagara Health Care System Centre project in early Design Development Stage as BIM
* 	coordinator; maintained and updated Building Envelope Model of the project, generated BIM RFIs, analyzed and presented interferences for weekly Envelope Design Meetings with architects and precast panel contractor.
* Developed procedures for Virtual Construction Workflow focused on 2D consultant input.
* Utilized Envelope Model for structural interference studies, AB/VR analysis

PCL Constructors, Toronto; 2008 - 2009 Project Coordinator, Bell LightBox Project
* Coordination work on Bell Lightbox ICI Project as part of experienced PCL team, performing under CM contract.
* 	Wrote Tender Packages, initiated Tender Process with Subcontractors, Processed Submittals and RFI& Maintained Document Control System, Supervised modelling of A+S
* 	Model for MEP Interference; later emerged as BIM Coordinator for the project, maintained and updated model, analyzed and presented interferences for weekly clash detection meetings with subcontractors.


BAZIS International Inc., Toronto; 2005 - 2008 Project Coordinator
* Design coordination, code compliance review and value engineering for residential construction in Kazakhstan.
* Assistance with Construction planning and scheduling for hi-rise residential building in Downtown Toronto, ON

IAF Building Division, Tel-Aviv, Israel; 2000 - 2005
Technology And Research Department Officer, Civil Engineering Division
* Planning, staging, execution and analysis of the annual experimental program between IAF and USACE.
* Coordination and management of engineering consultants.
* Testing of Rapid Runway Repair kit for deployment and anchoring.
* Developed and revised contract documentation for IAF Infrastructure Annual Maintenance Program.
* Developed Procedures for the Quality Control System Management.

BIM Software Experience

BIM Management Tools: Bentley ProjectWise. Autodesk BIM360 Docs Next Gen, Teams, Autodesk Navisworks Manage, Autodesk Dynamo;
Design tools: Autodesk Revit, Autodesk AutoCAD, Autodesk Civil3D, Bentley MicroStation, Bentley AECOsim, Inroads, Descartes; Sketchup; Autodesk Inventor (Fuse)

Point cloud Authoring and editing tools: Recap, Faro Scene, Cloud Compare, Point fuse;
Other specialized BIM software: Solibri Model Checker, SimpleBIM, Tekla BIMSight, Synchro4D.




















































































































































