Denis Erlich, B.Sc., PMP, CanBIM CP.
BIM Systems Manager

Education
Technion, Israel Insitute of Technology, Haifa, Israel, 1996-2000
 
Years in Practice
With HATCH: 2yrs
Other firms: 18 yrs

Experience Summary
Denis is a BIM Systems Manager with 10+ years of experience in Building Information modelling and 15+ years in 
Construction Industry – BSc of Technion- Israeli Institute of Technology. Experienced in ICI and Civil 
Infrastructure Projects. Promoter of use of data in construction

Selected Experience
Transportation:

RER3, Metrolinx, Toronto, ON (Pursuit Phase); 2020-2021
Responsible for setup, configuration, and implementation of BIM for Design Joint Venture for Pursuit Phase of 
RER P3 Program with Metrolinx.
Providing and developing specifications, design coordination support and technical assistance and advice on 
various BIM and CADD topics.
Support for various BIM - related corporate initiatives.


Park Lawn, Metrolinx, Toronto, ON; 2021-2022

BIM Manager, Responsible for Setup of BIM360, Revit Templates, Coordination Sessions, Workflows

EHTH, Metrolinx, Toronto, ON; 2021-2022

BIM Manager, Responsible for Setup of BIM360, Revit Templates, Coordination Sessions, Workflows

Bloor Yonge Capacity Enhancement Project,  TTC, Toronto, ON; 2019- 2020
BIM Manager, Responsible for Setup of BIM360, Revit Templates, Coordination Sessions, Workflows

Gordie Howe International Bridge, Windsor, ON; 2019-2020

BIM Manager, Responsible on behalf of Canadian Team for Multidisciplinary Coordination, Setup of BIM360, 
Revit Templates, Coordination Sessions, Workflows


Scarborough Subway Station, TTC, Toronto, ON; 2018-2019

BIM Manager, Responsible for Setup of BIM360, Revit Templates, Coordination Sessions, Workflows

Crosslinx Transit Solutions (CTS), Toronto; 2015 – 2018 
BIM Manager, CTS Constructors

?	Responsible for setup and implementation of BIM program for the ECLRT (Eglinton Crosstown Light Rail 
Transit) (6.5 billion RTI project) during design and construction.
?	Providing and developing specifications for BIM, CADD and Surveying, Document Control and As-Built 
programs, BIM /CADD Software training program, in accordance with BIM Execution Plan.
?	Managing 6 Segment BIM teams with total reporting personnel of 12 people and dozens of BIM users across 
the project.

VIVANext H3, D1, H2VMC, Rapid Transit Projects  2011 - 2012;
BIM Deployment Manager, 

?	Responsible for deloyment and training of Civil BIM Coordinators for Construction Management JV ( Kiewitt- 
EllisDon) ; follow up and impementation of the BIM Execution Plan , notably, implementation of the Utilities 
Relocation coordination, Quantity Takeoff and Construction Schedule Simulations.


Training and Certifications

?	Bachelor of Science, Technion, Israel Insitute of Technology, Haifa, Israel, 1996-2000
?	The Register of Engineers and Architects, General Civil Section, Tel Aviv, Israel, # 00116107
?	CKPM 213 –Management of Projects in the AEC, Ryerson University, 2012
?	Project Management Professional (PMP)  License # 1730719
?	CANBIM Certified Practitioner
?	Level 2 Secret clearance certificate


Software Skills
BIM Management Tools: 
Bentley ProjectWise. Autodesk BIM360 Docs/ACC, Autodesk Navisworks Manage, Autodesk Dynamo for Revit and 
Civil3D. 
Design tools: Autodesk 
Revit, Autodesk AutoCAD, Autodesk Civil3D, Civil3D Subassembly Composer, Bentley MicroStation, Bentley 
AECOSim, Bentley Inroads, Bentley Descartes; Sketchup; Autodesk Inventor, Autodesk Infraworks, 
GlobalMapper.
Point cloud Authoring and editing tools: 
Recap, Faro Scene, Cloud Compare, PointFuse;

Other specialized BIM software: 
Solibri Model Checker, SimpleBIM, Tekla BIMSight, Synchro4D, Clarity.

Employment History
AECOM Canada, Buildings + Places; 2018- 2020
BIM Manager, B+P
?	Responsible for setup, implementation, and support of BIM programs on Government-funded design 
projects during various stages, clients, including Toronto Transit Commission, Metrolinx, CNL, P3 
Partnerships.
?	Providing and developing specifications, design coordination support and technical assistance and advice 
on various BIM and CADD topics.
?	Developing BIM and CADD Software training programs; Coordinating training sessions for the Design Teams 
during project delivery.
?	Interfaced with Toronto Transit Commission Project Management Team on Scarborough Subway Extention 
Project.

Crosslinx Transit Solutions (CTS), Toronto; 2015 – 2018 
BIM Manager, CTS Constructors
?	Responsible for setup and implementation of BIM program for the ECLRT (Eglinton Crosstown Light Rail 
Transit) (6.5 billion RTI project) during design and construction.
?	Providing and developing specifications for BIM, CADD and Surveying, Document Control and As-Built 
programs, BIM /CADD Software training program, in accordance with BIM Execution Plan.
?	Managing 6 Segment BIM teams with total reporting personnel of 12 people and dozens of BIM users across 
the project.
?	Interfaced with Constructor , Engineering and Maintenance and Rehabilitation Joint Venture Stakeholders. 

Ellis Don Inc., Toronto; 2010 – 2015  
BIM Deployment Manager
?	Set up and configured multiple projects
?	Responsible for the set-up of BIM field operations, including execution plans, BIM manuals, contract 
addenda. Led the team in setup and integration of the VDC process with trade agreements, document 
control, design coordination and change management.
?	Hired to EllisDon in March 2010, and prepared documentation for BIM deployments;
?	Later, I deployed, trained and functionally managed BIM aspect of the following projects:
?	Krimbel Discovery Centre, Toronto, ON (April 2010- July 2011);
?	Surrey Memorial Hospital, BC (Jul 2011- Nov 2011);
?	VIVANext H3 Rapid Transit Project (Jul 2011 - Nov 2011);
?	Sick Kids Hospital (Jan 2011 - Nov 2011);
?	Saskatoon Police HQ (Aug 2011 -Apr 2012);
?	Calgary International Airport - YYC (May 2011- Jul 2012);
?	Ryerson University - CLS Campus (Jul 2012- Feb 2013);
?	Goldring Centre of Performing Arts UofT (Oct 2012 - Feb 2013);
?	Jasper Lodge Renovation Survey ( Nov 2012-May 2013 );
?	My role included for writing Execution Plans, helping with BIM specification writing, budgeting, leading in-
house modelling teams to support Field BIM, training of new-coming BIM coordinators to Interference 
management, document control, handling models, modelling techniques, understanding contract specifics, 
and various interoperability issues. Large portion of that role included for developing interpersonal skills and 
leadership and mentor skills.
?	Re-wrote template BIM Execution manual of EllisDon and prepared a BIM amendment to Contract's 
Appendix A of General Conditions in cooperation with Christian Wiechmann of Commercial  Director of 
Services & Project Controls at EllisDon.
?	At the same time, as BIM expanded it's application beyond clash detection, I was developing and 
operationalizing scanning services for Ellisdon’s
?	Geomatics Group, profit-and-loss group engaged in laser scanning of existing conditions for major 
renovation projects (Yorkdale Mall, Markham Mall Expansion, YYZ T3 Renovation etc.).

PCL Constructors, Toronto; 2009 – 2010 
BIM/VDC Coordinator
?	Emerged to the Niagara Health Care System Centre project in early Design Development Stage as BIM 
coordinator.
?	Maintained and updated Building Envelope Model of the project, generated BIM RFIs, analyzed and 
presented interferences for weekly Envelope Design Meetings with architects and precast panel contractor.
?	Developed procedures for Virtual Construction Workflow focused on 2D consultant input.
?	Utilized Envelope Model for structural interference studies, AB/VR analysis

PCL Constructors, Toronto; 2008 – 2009 
Project Coordinator, Bell LightBox Project
?	Coordination work on Bell Lightbox ICI Project as part of experienced PCL team, performing under CM 
contract.
?	Wrote Tender Packages, initiated Tender Process with Subcontractors, Processed Submittals and RFI& 
Maintained Document Control System, Supervised modelling of A+S
?	Model for MEP Interference; later emerged as BIM Coordinator for the project, maintained and updated 
model, analyzed and presented interferences for weekly clash detection meetings with subcontractors.

BAZIS International Inc., Toronto; 2005 – 2008 
Project Coordinator
?	Design coordination, code compliance review and value engineering for residential construction in 
Kazakhstan.
?	Assistance with Construction planning and scheduling for Hi-Rise Residential Crystal Blue Project in 
Downtown Toronto, ON.




Languages
English
Hebrew
Russian



 



www.hatch.com 	Last First | 1
 

Page 1 of 1


Denis Erlich CV .Doc	 	 © Hatch 2006/03 ?
